Take a look at these two lines.
Which line is longer?
Chances are, your mind is telling you that the bottom one is longer.
But, what happens when the arrows are removed from the lines?
Suddenly it becomes clear that both lines are the same length.
We often refer to an image like this one as an optical illusion.
It would be more accurately described as a cognitive illusion.
Because the illusion is not created by our eyes, but by our brains.
What do you see here?
You might see a young lady, or you might see an old woman.
The way you look at something can affect how you see it.
The fact is that there are both images in this drawing. Can you see them both?
Without realizing it, we bring our own experiences, ideas and thoughts
with us when we try to make sense of the world around us.
We all have stored knowledge about the world, and this affects what we see.
Is this two silhouettes, or a vase?
We each have our own lens through which we view the world.
Rarely do we realize how subjective our perceptions are.
If you had a pet rabbit growing up, you may see a rabbit in this image.
If you live near a pond, you may see a duck.
Both images are present.
This is how bias can sneak into our lives, and into our interactions with others.
These unconscious biases refer to the attitudes or stereotypes that,
without our awareness or conscious control, shape our judgments
about people's abilities, potential and character.
Our biases exist as a result of our experiences
socialization and our exposure to images and ideas.
While the word bias has a negative connotation, our biases do not make us bad people,
and the good news is that becoming more aware of our biases
can make us better managers, employees, co-workers and friends.
The next two modules will guide you through some exercises,
to help you explore your own unconscious bias.
You'll get some insights on how to manage your biases,
and to think more deliberately about workplace decisions.